---
title: "Introduction to the ELK Stack"
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Introduction to the ELK Stack

## What is the ELK Stack?

The **ELK Stack** is a set of open-source tools used for collecting, storing, searching, analyzing, and visualizing log data in real-time. ELK is an acronym for the three main tools that make up the stack:

- **Elasticsearch**: A distributed search and analytics engine, used to store, search, and analyze large volumes of data quickly and in near real-time.
- **Logstash**: A data processing tool that collects, transforms, and sends log data to various destinations, including Elasticsearch.
- **Kibana**: A data visualization dashboard that works with Elasticsearch, allowing you to create charts and dashboards for data analysis.

## Why use the ELK Stack?

LEDS is preparing to handle large volumes of data generated by different sources, such as servers, applications, network devices, and so on. The ELK Stack provides an efficient and scalable way to manage this data. Some of the reasons to use the ELK Stack include:

- **Log Centralization**: With the ELK Stack, we can collect logs from multiple sources in one centralized location for easy monitoring and analysis.
- **Real-Time Analysis**: The ability to analyze logs in real-time enables the detection of failures, security analysis, and performance monitoring of applications quickly.
- **Powerful Visualization**: Kibana offers a robust graphical interface for creating custom dashboards and detailed reports based on the data stored in Elasticsearch.

## How Does the ELK Stack Work?

The way the ELK Stack works can be summarized in a three-step pipeline:

1. **Data Collection with Logstash**: Logstash collects data from various sources, such as server logs, applications, or devices, and can apply transformations before sending the data to Elasticsearch.
2. **Storage and Indexing with Elasticsearch**: The data is stored in Elasticsearch, which indexes this information to allow fast searches and complex analytical queries.
3. **Visualization with Kibana**: Kibana provides an interface for users to explore the data indexed in Elasticsearch through visualizations, dashboards, and interactive reports.

## Next Steps

To start using the ELK Stack, you can follow tutorials available in the official documentation or various communities.

The tutorial followed by the LEDS team to set up the ELK infrastructure can be found at the following link: [How To Install Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana (Elastic Stack) on Ubuntu 22.04](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-elasticsearch-logstash-and-kibana-elastic-stack-on-ubuntu-22-04#step-5-exploring-kibana-dashboards)