---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Managament Jobs
---
Set of Jobs that retrieve data from JIRA to assist with the daily meeting and sprint tracking.

## Job: `job_daily_report`

The `job_daily_report` was created to generate a detailed daily report for the daily stand-up meeting. This job compiles relevant information from the daily, including:

- Summary of discussions
- Completed and pending tasks
- Identified blocking points

The data generated by this job is automatically sent to a specific channel on Discord, keeping all team members updated on daily progress and any challenges faced.

## Job: `job_daily_clockify`

The `job_daily_clockify` was created to generate a detailed daily report on each developer's hours for the day. This job compiles relevant project information, including:

- Hours worked per day
- Total hours worked

The data generated by this job is automatically sent to a specific channel on Discord, keeping all team members updated on daily progress and any challenges faced.

## Job: `job_resume_sprint`

The `job_resume_sprint` was developed to provide an overview of the current sprint, focusing on progress metrics. This job generates a summary containing:

- Percentage of completed tasks
- Percentage of incomplete tasks
- Observations on sprint performance

This data is also sent to a dedicated Discord channel, facilitating the analysis of sprint progress and allowing real-time adjustments to team strategies.

## Job: `job_resume_project`

The `job_resume_project` was created to generate a detailed daily report on the project's status. This job compiles relevant project information, including:

- Team Velocity
- Remaining Work
- Estimated Completion Date
- Number of Completed Tasks
- Number of Pending Tasks
- Number of Unstarted Tasks
- Percentage Completed

The data generated by this job is automatically sent to a specific channel on Discord, keeping all team members updated on daily progress and any challenges faced.

---

These jobs are part of an integrated system for efficient project management, providing detailed and up-to-date insights on team performance and task progress directly in Discord.

## Configuring the Job

To configure the job, it's necessary to create a `.env` file with the following data:

**Configure the Jira**

* JIRA_URL = http://example.atalasion.com

* JIRA_USERNAME = example@exaple.com

* JIRA_API_TOKEN = xxxxxx

**Configure the Discord Webhook**

* WEBHOOK_URL = https://xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

**Configure the Clockify**

* CLOCKIFY_API_KEY =xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

* CLOCKIFY_WORKSPACE_ID = xxxxxxxxxxx

## Instalation

```js
version: '3.8'

services:
  management_jobs:
    image: registry.gitlab.com/ledsifes/tools/management_jobs
    env_file:
      - .env
    restart: unless-stopped

```